looks like screaming okay we already you
can turn everyone sitting nice alright I
hope everyone got the chance to get some
food definitely feel energized now to
talk about this real web so Who am I and
why are people here from the IPF s
project I'm the vide and i'm here with
Lars that was the stars there and
similarly back there and nectar which
was city there you go and we are part of
for a collapse we are also after
engineers at RADA collapse an apocalypse
we develop technologies well / calls to
make the web better we have been
building I PFS file calling and I
peer-to-peer today we have like it's
very compressed but trying to be very
complete session for you we know like
everyone is going to be spending a lot
of time a king so we were just don't
want to like speed everyone into what I
PFS is and then we will have some demos
with go I PFS respectively of ours and
actor will show you oh I PFS works I'll
to install it how to get help out to
read the documentation and the later if
you need help like installing oh I PFS
in your machine we can also we are also
here to provide you home and then we
will go into like a distributed app
session and talk about the world I PFS
in JavaScript or we D be an orbit and
I'll to build completely distributed
decentralized applications again without
any central points of authority so I
think it's fair to assume that like
everyone here is coming together because
we know that the web has some issues and
these issues come from a lot of reasons
some of them is just like because of the
way it was designed the way this was
architected and the Internet the
underlying network has supports the web
this application platform was designed
to be them things like the end-to-end
principle and other architectural
decisions made our enable forced us to
do things like passing the same bits in
the wire over
over again a very good example to to
show what i mean by passing the same
bits is like when we are trying to like
well the video on youtube we have all
been in this situation where Ike we are
in a room full of people and everyone is
like checking this latest video or
display this article in some platform
and everyone wants to download this
video and check it out and if you can be
like small I can't win and rag video it
doesn't have to be like really heavy but
because we are like so many people in
the same room and again I'm just like
showing here an example just to do some
back-of-the-envelope map 30 we we
actually put a pressure on the network
if if we were eight ups from the
backbone if we are adopts from YouTube
or like 40 gigabytes of data being
passed over the same ops over and over
again to well the video on the same
machines that actually share the same
physical space and the same local area
network so this is not very efficient
because if you think like after the
first time the video got downloaded is
this working well I'm actually oh it's
like cutting and coming oh I see yeah
let me know okay I'll try not to pass
fights too quickly just make sure a
twist although sides appear once cool so
I would say I like a video like Gangnam
style like the screenshot I've here it
was seen more than like two and off
billion times means that like we spent
or we passed over the same wires more
than alpha of an exabyte of data and
this is like very like inefficient it's
like very heavy on resources and like
the world has been trying to solve this
with things like CD ends like by putting
like a lot of hard drives closer to the
users so they have to hop less from
their device to the backbone but that
doesn't really solve the delay we are
still going to somewhere to get the data
that we could just get locally and
telecoms have been trying to solve this
problem by putting like larger pipes
from back
bound to users homes but what do you see
seen and liked what we can observe is
like even though there's a lot of effort
moving all the networks to fiber
networks from the backbone to users
homes the the bandwidth is not like
speeding it fast he's on sweetie net
fast like this projector so like we see
that the line of bandwidth over time it
aside from 2007 2012 it's not the most
up-to-date data but it's still very
valid it is with accepted Japan which
has something special like everything
else everyone else is like kind of like
on the same average bandwidth available
and one thing that is happening on
parallel it is that prices like storage
capacity prices are decreasing and
people are creating more and more and
more data like consuming more video
creating more content online building
more business online and we are kind of
like promised a decade ago or more
they're like the wool world is going to
get connected but that's not reality at
all like even though we have like nice
places with like coffee shops with Wi-Fi
like offices with really fast
connections like internet in our homes
there is scenarios that like we just get
disconnected like because of like low
bandwidth we might be in an area where
our cellular connection is not like
working because we might be in a tunnel
like if if you get to try like if you
are used to travel a lot like if you're
going to a point you know you're
probably going to be disconnected or if
you just go into a train and are you
entering the tunnel and suddenly your
connection drops and yes yeah so okay
let's start again thank you for coping
with all this we definitely need to
expect for two computers that problems
with a particular cool so yeah we were
promised like a decade or more even that
the wool wool work is going to get
connected I do not have to worry like
everyone's going to get connection it's
going to be fine but it sound true like
there is alternative services like
telecoms like pipes go down that the
center's burn
there's congestion there's a each time
more more machines using the same pipe
so there is congestion there's
interference there is a low bandwidth
and there's like scenarios where you are
just simply disconnected not speak about
like developing countries that don't
have the privileged access to the
internet that we have today and we
cannot continue to build apps that rely
on a consistent and continuous
connection however when we look at the
echo system of apps and it's just some
of the examples of apps that like
probably most of us here use everyday to
run our businesses to connect with our
loved ones to get in touch with our
friends like they will just go down once
we get disconnected it's not even like
going down about like not being able to
connect the world that would be expected
but like the app just crashes like we
cannot use it at all and okay what's
okay and this is huge problem the fact
that like the apps and services that we
are building simply cannot reach the
entire ecosystem of users and let they
break and the death of fragile is a huge
problem not to speak about other
problems that exists on the current
model today where the web is being
kicked out of IOT because the weight of
the web works and the caching works
listen real well priority there is like
censorship issues where entire countries
can just like pull it off like shut down
the internet for an entire country and
similarly millions of people have lose
access to information there's probably
security permanent and things that like
no do not need to be this way we don't
have to have this model present like we
can doom so much better the web was
built to me to be distributed from the
beginning the same way that the internet
was designed to be distributed it's kind
of ironic because when you think and you
look back in history like the internet
was built to resist nuclear attacks like
it was literally like parts of the
network could go like blank and the rest
of the network would still work this is
like just a picture from a documentary
heralds of like computer networks what's
in this documentary
this one's no one well maybe we can i
watch it this evening talk part of the
hackathon it's very interesting like you
can see so this is like Robert can
explaining the store and forward
technique that enable the ARPANET
working in these kind of conditions and
you can see other people from like the
beginnings and the development of the
ARPANET the system that evolved to the
Internet talk about all their concerns
and all they develop the systems to be
reliable in situations where there was
just completely this connectivity and it
really started why it really started as
distributed but like by social and
economic and just sometimes matters of
convenience we kind of like left the
internet and the web move to the
centralized system and it is very
important to bring it back to become
distributed so that it can create more
value for its users and also for the
businesses that are running on top and
it is with this frame of mind like I'll
welcome everyone to see and check out I
PFS the interplanetary file system I PFS
in a way to sum it up it's a content
address file system it is a change and
architecture change like a model change
where instead of like having a web where
we have like these domain names that
resolve to locations we actually have
names that resolve to content ashes so
instead of me being relying on a central
point of authority I actually just am
looking for some piece of content I
don't need to contact a central point of
authority what does this means so in the
current web model the hcp world if we
are looking for a resource on the
network we get like we resolve a domain
name and then we get an IP address and
then we find our way to that machine and
then we asked for some resource the
problem is if I get disconnected like if
there is a network split now I cannot
access that reserves anymore and it gets
worse because other people might have it
resource because they are mine
downloaded it before or even me might
have done all the results before but
because I have to trust the central
point of authority to tell me what I
should see I cannot really confirm or
deny that I already have the content or
that other people have the content and
we di PFS with
which is smaller where instead of like
looking for a location we just look for
a Content dash and we ask the network
who has the content that resolves to
this hash that ashes to this and anyone
in a network can tell us send us the
content and when we receive it we can a
again and verify that we receive
the exact bits that we were looking for
in the first place so the network split
can happen and I can still get the
content from the other side of the
network or even better like if i have
the content on my machine I don't have
to like go online again to like fetch
the same thing how many times I've it
happened to you while you're loading a
web page like you are reviewing it's a
news article or like a video or
something and then you go into some this
connectivity like you go into some
basement or some tunnel or something
where your connection drops and you
happen to click refresh and suddenly the
page disappears and he would you just
we're reading it and it's just because
like the browser doesn't have any way to
tell what should be cash and like what
is still valid and what is not so I PFS
like leverages in and it is really just
like this collection of great ideas from
academia on other systems that have been
battle tested for years and we compile
them down with steal them down into a
bundle that creates a set of primitives
that can be used for the web model we
developed two implementations one easing
go like typically used by the people
that want to build applications with I
PFS and that require a lot of
performance and that they want to take
and leverage all their system resources
and go is a perfect language for that
and we also have one implementation in
JavaScript and the main focus behind
building something in javascript is so
that the full protocol can work on the
browser yeah like it is possible to run
the food is really protocol the full
content addressed file system on your
browser page without installing any
plugin without having any sort of app
running alongside it it is pretty
powerful and within I PFS there is a lot
of things
some people call it the abstraction
mountain because the way that like I BFS
is composed is really like a lot of like
small smaller core subsystems that like
create a system as a whole starting with
multi formats so multi formats are
ourself describable data types things
like multi ash multi other multiverse
multi codec multi-stream you Tiki and
several other multis are simply a way to
teach a PFS out to adopt like several
ash functions several network addresses
several basic codecs for data so that we
can upgrade I PFS over time and adopt
new cryptographic hash functions adopt
new types of serialized data without
having to make assumptions before a hand
one of the key pieces that came out of
this is the CID so if you have used I
PFS and I for those of you that I've
used IP fuss in the past you have you
might be familiar with the content
address the ash which is typically a
multi ash plus the ash value of the
content and now with them with the
introduction of IPL d which are
explaining next slide we have this CID
thing which not only tells what is the
edge of the velvet we are looking for
and which ash function we should use to
validate that this ash value but also it
tells the multi collect of that content
so it is kind of like lifting the
extension of the file instead of like
you having a dot mp4 or dot PNG you're
actually when you are linking to
something you're saying oh I'm going to
fetch a picture I'm going to fetch a
Bitcoin block I'm going to fetch a
Nigerian blog I'm going to fetch
something that I know what is the data
type and this is like powerful for
resolvers for query engines for parsers
because you can f something that is very
agnostic for the type of data that is
going to be linking and so I was saying
in I I PFS the data structures or weight
data is constructed and represented is
using something that we call I pld the
interplanetary link data and like
everything in I PFS from files to well
everything is a file but everything in
IVFs is represented as a deck okay it's
always a graph
usher is always a sweet click because we
use ashes as the links so there is no
way to create cycles in this graph and
these the links are called Merkel links
and it comes from the notion of like
Merkel trees bro brought up by ralph
merkle on like 1980 like more than 30
years ago and it has been widely used by
other systems that you might be very
familiar with like it is a system that
uses Merkel trees block chains are used
they use of myrtle trees there's that
there is BitTorrent and many more and I
always have to make this joke because he
never gets old like forever for whoever
has heard the saying like money doesn't
grow on trees they centrally didn't
expect for a bit going to come along
because money does grow on trees it
grows on the box I'm so I PFS
intuitively is this mike merkel forest
with all of these merkel trees can leave
and be referenced even between
themselves you can build now that the
structures that you have like an interim
smart contract pointing to some Bitcoin
transaction that has some ash there that
points to some BitTorrent ash that has
some references to get commits and you
can create a resolver does that just
goes through all of these links and
fetches the value that you're looking
for so the it is a it might pass
misunderstood is it might seem like a
subtle difference but like what we get
in return is I can tell of like every
having this internet of data where data
just exists and gets transferred and
found we move it to like an Internet or
data structures where you can get these
very efficient query engines to resolve
through different types of data
structures and after the data structures
like interact with each other I kind of
transformations apply to these data
structures that exist on the network
right now we have experimental support
for the actor above like we're above if
you're using I PFS for a while it's the
Michael deck like so if you are used I
PFS any familiar with America leg it's
like we're above we now have the XC bar
which is a way more friendly for web
developers instead of like having to be
confining their data in perhaps they can
use just like JSON objects that
civilized
to this seaboard formats like very
friendly and as a one-to-one mapping on
Jason and then we also support get it
you Liam blocks working on it z cash
Bitcoin and there's way more coming if
you want if you are developing like a
miracle data structure for your
application you can just check interface
activity format and i purely resolver
and see how you can make your mark like
your merkel eyes of the structure
conformant without resolver and get all
of these query engine from my PFS for
free you won't need to change your data
structure we you just need to provide
some primitives on top of it so that we
can we know how to resolve to it cool so
very important also and provided by a
PFS is I p NS so I PA NS stands for the
interplanetary name system which is
something very important when you are
doing like something on a distributed
system like Totten today we are used to
use DNS for this for these features
where we have the name that resolves to
some kind of like locations on my pea in
a distributed Network because you don't
want to rely on some centralized thing
like dns we have these like records that
are cryptographically signed and they
use as name so instead of like trusting
some point where you keep by fetching
these names from a central provider you
just create a record you ash the public
key that reference is a private key that
you are going to use to wash to sign its
record and you put it on the network and
like whoever fetches that record can i
verify the signature verify it was made
by you and like trust that pointer and
then like if you have a change to that
pointer you can just like create a new
record sign it again with the same
private key publish it under the same
public key and people will get these
updates and they will see the point in
moving and you get this way you can I
dynamic data structures on a PFS which
is a immutable and equal to the dress
file system but yeah like for moving
this name of the it's over network you
really have you have to have some kind
of primitive that enables those updates
to pass through very fast and a very
good way to do that is pops up so we
have been like working a wall in pubs on
I PFS and right now we have a it as a
available on I PFS as an experimental
feature and like the first step for us
to do this like we did like a huge
literature review that I welcome you all
to check out I kids on a whip you to
pierce wash pops up like it has the
reference for all the papers and a bunch
of discussion that we were having while
we did this and then we did two
implementations moaning girl when one in
JavaScript that you can use to that
again it's very experimental it's not
like in a full release of I PFS but
there is some apps as you're going to
see today that are already using it and
pretty happy with it cool okay last but
not the list and a very important piece
is the lib peer-to-peer we peer-to-peer
is like secret sauce oh hi PFS and it's
the thing that enables idea has to work
in the browser in a native context or
even in a IOT device where the
researchers are very constrained repute
appear is a networking stack but instead
of like making assumptions about the
network stack we create a like modules
of capabilities and the way this works
like we always expose the same primitive
like you always dial to other peers in
the network by their ID which is
derivative ROM their public key but then
like you can dial through different
transports like TCP UDP quick for
example WebRTC in the browser for
example we use web sockets HTTP and web
RTC in native we use UTP TCP and web
sockets and we get this interrupt
because then we have nails in the middle
that speak both so that nodes in the
browser can relay their connections to
any node in a network through all the
other nodes in the network it is a very
nice way to like equip your app with
network capabilities without having to
like do a full buying in everything you
can swap as you go and experiment with
different pieces of the puzzle just to
like so like this is a picture like you
can have browsers connecting to IT
devices connecting to servers and they
all are addressed by the same unique
namespace which is the public key
and just to show you out it is simple to
create like these we peer-to-peer
recipes here is too there is more this
is like the on the left we have the one
we use in node.js and you can see like
we support there in node.js two
transports TCP and web sockets and then
we have a stream boxer called speedy and
then we have a crypto channel called SE
cayo and that's it and in JavaScript but
in the browser we have the web sockets
and WebRTC a weber TC transport then we
also use fede and second years for the
crypto channel and we also have this
discovery mechanism which is a very neat
feature for browsers because it enables
browsers to discover each other just by
the the signaling server that is used
for WebRTC it's kind of like multicast
DNS of the web and we can have more
discovery mechanisms more crypto
channels more muck sirs to the mix they
will always follow the same interface
and whip you will know where when to use
them and not to use them cool so I'm
really like wrapping up here again sorry
for all the troubles with the projectors
after me where's an actor will come up
but just like to make the final remark
is like I PFS is really a protocol to
create the web which means and this is
really important we are not here to
create an alternative web and say now to
use this you have Y to join this private
circle no it is a protocol to integrate
perfectly with the web and like users
should not even have to understand that
I using I PFS and whatever is underneath
and other than they will see that their
apps will start working in scenarios
where they didn't work before again the
offline disconnected scenarios and they
also like see a lot of speed
improvements it's a protocol to make the
web more offline smarter distributed
permanent safer and specially faster
it's a very large open source project
like we get a lot of people like
everything is MIT license everything is
open source we get a lot of people like
open source developers that like come
and hack with us there's a lot
groups like using IP fso develop their
applications there is a lot of people
even from academia just like coming and
like checking our research and like all
we develop the specifications for the
protocol and coming into these threads
and I having these very thoughtful
discussions of well we can make these
things better and what was tried in the
past ID network and what we can learn
from it so yeah like you can go to get
accomplished a PFS and let's jump into
the oip password is there any question
that people would like to ask why now
before we go to the hacking you can I
start setting up I guess awesome yes no
there's like several ways to make that
really nice so you can always like
convert like a name is going to be in
the end just a pointer like some some
munim human readable name points to
something that's like non-human readable
and what we have working to even today
is like for example I have to not if I
go well not going to open your browser
how you know so i was going to show i
well it's not my computer so I was not
going to open but like if you go to I
PFS or ieo for example today it is I PFS
Rio right it's the name that you are
used to type but that website is not
being loaded by normal HTTP server or
CDN it's actually being loaded by I PFS
and there is a trick there because like
if you do like a scan on the dns record
you'll see that there is a DNS link with
an ash and what happened is like that
ash is resolved by an IP FS nodes and
like it is returned by the IPF s note to
you a large is going i guess like show
that indeed will show that again in
detail i'm going to show them the name
sweet thank you
as well helps it's there I want to okay
yeah so you see this is the edge like
when you are doing I PFS today oh you
are really resolving this ash from the
network so i can add some like what do
we do for deploying ipf SRO we add a new
version of the website we get the ash we
update this domain name and like then
the next people the next person like
loading the web page will like world a
different page because it's going to be
different so just make sure ok so we
when we add something to I PFS we do
announce it by default to the network
saying hey like if someone is looking
for this content i have here tell them
to come to me like we have this thing
called a DHT which is like this really
key value store that we just store
metadata like we just say if someone is
looking for this hash tell them to come
to me we don't force any user to store
any data without them requesting first
and also after you requesting data you
are you can decide if you want to
provide that data to the network so if
you are using IVFs to see all the files
like you are naturally going to become a
provider of those files but you you
still have the option of saying no I
want to download it I want to be just
download the content but I don't want to
provide it because you might be for some
point a mobile phone and you don't want
to be like your mobile phone to be
serving the entire internet because it
might be very expensive on your battery
right I just want to consume so it is
prepared for those use cases if you but
then again I the same same way like it
requires you to communicate
with your users we chatted out available
so that they can don't know them and
then you cannot create any kind of
channel to do that question like storage
or memory okay yes and no so the case is
like again the YouTube video guys right
like if I'm loading the video I'm alone
in the video I like storing in some cash
somewhere like and then like I do
refresh and i'm going to download
everything again and i have already up
the video they're like why i am not like
just like loading from a local copy so
yes I'm having a local copy but I always
I already had a local copy anyway I'm
just like doing giving it a value
it has to be erased spots I'm sorry to
interrupt but I have to let intervene
with we sort of try to keep it under an
hour but you can go on as well as you
too can make your last words about 15
minutes for tomorrow because she has to
go is it okay sure for absolutely yeah
and like I took a lot of time because of
all the projector situation and also
Lars an actor still have something to
show ya thank you so much for the
wedding ok so yeah I see that